On it's inception, photos were meant to be a window for people to see, outside their world. A world which otherwise, they had no means to see. The reality of the world; the good bad or ugly of it was closer to them now.

Smartphones democratised this process, bringing to billions of people, images both surreal and rarely and rarely now, real. Then came filters and myriad tools, once the social media started ruling. Having just a photo was not enough, it had to look good. Likes mattered. Selfie phenomena gripped the world then and we came to know that lives did not mattered, where Likes mattered.

Now artificial intelligence inside the some of the best smartphones has taken the whole image and photo thing to the next level. What we see is what we don't get. What we get is a several times enhanced image, thanks to artificial intelligence. No need to do any editing or photo-shop, it comes delivered, every single time.

Sceneries which look out of this world and people who are too perfect for a regular picture. No one is complaining though. Likes matter for people. For companies, the sales of the instrument matters.

Once cameras were meant to be a beautifully crafted piece of hardware, which manufacturers took immense pride in them. Now, it's the software which matters. Even a normal picture can be made pleasing to the eyes, by the software which renders it. Gone are the days of lens and aperture.

"With Night Sight, Google’s software is at its most extreme, capturing up to 15 low-light shots and blending them to brighten up faces, provide sharp details and saturate colours in a way that draws in the eye. No flashes go off — it artificially enhances the light that’s already there."

Companies like Google who have ruled the world of software have rolled out phones which show people things which are artificial, with the use of artificial intelligence. Everything is enhanced to the hilt with software. a photo should look good and get Likes, rest do not matter.

Pixels are pieces of information, by enhancing the pixels artificially, it is not too short of creating 'fake information', all so much for battling the menace of 'fake news'. Those trying to be vanguards, have become the pirates with the smartphone camera.
