Do you remember the last time, when you initiated a conversation with a call? I am sure, figuring this out would take some time for you. Some may not even remember at all.

It's elementary!  When the 'texts' have become the de facto mode of communication, for almost all.

The messaging apps have not only changed the mode of communication for us, but also the way we communicate. As we talk less and less and use the QWERTY more and more, the brain is getting more wired to the written words, rather than spoken.

For the heavy text users, initiating a verbal communication would now even involve Newton's First Law Of Motion. After all, words flow right?

When the 'texts' are so engrained in our daily life (it's apt to use life, instead of 'communication'), it would be just about time, when a recruiter would approach and take a preliminary interview through messaging system or chatbots.

The time has come.

"A growing number of technology companies have sprung up to help employers use messaging tools to text potential workers. Mya, which launched in 2016 and now works with several large staffing firms and more than 40 Fortune 500 companies, uses “conversational” artificial intelligence to text with applicants about basic qualifications, availability and interview logistics.

Canvas, which utilizes machine-generated questions and human recruiters to message with candidates, describes itself as “the world’s first text-based interviewing platform.” 

For the companies it is not only about saving costs, but also reaching the right candidates in a very competitive market. When the talent has long forgone the email for texts, it is not prudent to send the initial request to them through emails.

For many candidates it would also mean that they are able to articulate themselves in a much better manner. Texts is what they know more, than verbal communication.

A job interview always needed a docile, non-intrusive and peaceful avatar.  The new range of chatbots and text based interview solutions, might be able to provide that.
