When you have a hammer, everything is a nail. IT does not matter, if the nail is required to be put in to place. Just because one has the hammer, it is struck everywhere. Same seems to be happening with artificial intelligence. since there is no controlling authority who can decide, which areas should be allowed AI and which are the right people to work in those areas. Even up to the extent that, what are the right problems which artificial intelligence should tackle. And also, who would decide that the solution developed is right in all means, fairness and ethical for use.

Everything is hunky dory, in this artificial intelligence world.

There is hardly any area in which AI is not being deployed, or being tried to deploy.

One such area is fishing. Fishing more or less is still an ancient business, where the only change has been in the modern vessels with advanced navigation and communication equipment. the most critical thing, where to find fish is gut based and the wisdom collected by vintage mariners, with enough salt in their hair and beard to cook a decent meal.

There are people who are trying to change this by artificial intelligence. They want to tell the world,where fishing is happening.

Anyone who is living on the coast would tell that fishes are depleting, both the big and small ones. In such scenario if the entire world knows, where the fishes are being found, then every single vessel in the proximity would head that way, and soon enough all the catch would be gone.

In spite of the phenomenal rise in the global population, still so far we had enough fishes to eat because, not every day is 'fishy' for every fisherman. And hence, everything is balanced out.

It is common sense that, when every fisherman starts getting fish every single day, there wont be a day afar, when no one would catch a single fish.

If such common sense escapes from the neutral nets of those who have developed such artificial intelligence, then it casts a huge aspersion on the human intelligence of those very people.

On the lines of United Nations, or may be under it's ambit, the world soon need a governing body for AI. Or else, it would be too late to establish one.
god's sake.
Let the fishes alone with the fishermen, they do not AI for  
