They say, "The journey is the destination". Most don't believe in it and keep running their entire life, trying to reach that magical destination, where finally they could stop. In the process, forgetting about the journey and the very fact that it is the journey which is enjoyed and not the destination.

Airports are now the harbours for our ingress and egress to our journeys, both known and unknown. It is imperative that as we embark, as a traveller we are happy, calm, relaxed and have left all our anxieties, behind.

Travel is a hospitality business. Airlines and Airports big time. Now both of them charge exorbitantly. So it's their duty to make us travellers as comfortable as possible.

There are some 'forced' entities in this hospitality business. Ideally, they would not like to be there. Moreover they are not trained to think and act like being in a service or hospitality business.

India's very own, Central Industrial Security Force or (CISF) is one such entity. They are the guardians of our airports and we have a safe journey always, because of them. It is South Asia's largest aviation security force and guards 61 airports.

But when you will have to trade between a safe and comfortable (mentally, emotionally, spiritually) journey, what would you pick?

Difficult question haan, I would start travelling less through this modern harbour, as long as I could afford to.

CISF is now planning to deploy robotic canines instead of our usual 'best friends'. Apparently in a move to modernise and adapt to new technologies. Also, cost saving.

But where does this leaves the traveller?

I would not even approach an airport which would have a robotic canine. It's so difficult to trust a human being, how do I trust a machine? Moreover, the handlers of these machines themselves are not aware of their machines. Probably they would attend a 3 day long training and would stand on the doorways, armed with an instruction manual.

Where there is a much more humane alternative already available which is working so very well fine for both the entities, where is the need to change it?

Penny wise and Pound foolish. Save some money by replacing our 'best friends' with robots and let the passenger traffic drop.

Probably this thought must have come from a machine.

